README.md, before:

# RAW Editor

Web-based RAW photo editor that runs RawTherapee CLI in a container, so you can edit and export from low-power devices.

## Highlights

- RAW import with TIFF intermediates for fast preview generation
- Web-based PP3 editing with versioned snapshots
- Export to external integrations (Google Photos, Immich)
- Background import/export jobs per session
- Docker-first setup for self-hosting

## Quick start (Docker-first)

1) Copy the env file and edit values:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

2) (Optional) Set the RawTherapee version used in the Docker image:

```bash
export RAWTHERAPEE_VERSION=5.11
```

3) Start the stack (app + Postgres):

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.selfhost.yml up -d --build
```

3) Open the UI:

- http://localhost:3000

## Configuration

- Edit `.env` for database and paths
- See `docs/DOCKER.md` for a full Docker setup
- See `docs/CONFIGURATION.md` for environment variables
 - Generate `src/lib/assets/THIRD_PARTY_LICENSES.txt` with `bun run licenses:generate`

## RawTherapee source compliance

When distributing a Docker image, publish the exact RawTherapee source URL that matches
`RAWTHERAPEE_VERSION` (the app surfaces this automatically in the Legal page).

## Development (Bun)

```bash
bun install
bun run dev
```

## Project structure

- `src/lib/server/image-editor.ts`: RawTherapee CLI wrapper
- `src/lib/pp3-utils.ts`: PP3 parse/diff/apply utilities
- `src/lib/server/db/schema.ts`: Drizzle schema
- `src/lib/server/jobs/`: job manager and workers

## License

See `LICENSE` for GPLv3 terms.

Commit message:

Sets up self-hosting with Docker Compose
Introduces a Docker Compose configuration for easier self-hosting, including Postgres setup.

Includes instructions for downloading, configuring, and running the stack.

Updates configuration documentation with CLUT source link.

README.md, after:

# RAW Editor

Web-based RAW photo editor that runs RawTherapee CLI in a container, so you can edit and export from low-power devices.

## Highlights

- RAW import with TIFF intermediates for fast preview generation
- Web-based PP3 editing with versioned snapshots
- Export to external integrations (Google Photos, Immich)
- Background import/export jobs per session
- Docker-first setup for self-hosting

## Quick start (prebuilt container)

1) Download the compose file: [docker-compose.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/poesterlin/raw-editor/main/docker-compose.selfhost.yml)

2) Copy the env file and edit values:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

3) Start the stack (app + Postgres):

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```

3) Open Port 4893

## Configuration

- Edit `.env` for database and paths
- See `docs/CONFIGURATION.md` for environment variables
- CLUT source (Hald CLUT pack): http://rawtherapee.com/shared/HaldCLUT.zip

## RawTherapee source compliance

When distributing a Docker image, publish the exact RawTherapee source URL used by the image
(the app surfaces this automatically in the Legal page).

## License

See `LICENSE` for GPLv3 terms.
